the film opens somewhere on skull island
the great ape kong awakens and gathers
his food on the island before making a
spear from a tree
he throws it and hits the wall of a dome
that is using skull island as a setting
kong is being studied by monarch
scientist dr elene andrews
he has developed a bond with a girl
named gia
gia was a deaf girl from the ewe tribe
whose family was killed by a tidal wave
and is now looked after by eileen
eileen's assistant thinks that kong
should be let go from the facility
but she worries that if she release him
out in the open will lead godzilla to go
after him as there cannot be two alphas
it has been five years since godzilla
battled king ghidorah and established
himself
as the king of the titans a new company
called apex cybernetics
led by walter simmons has stepped in to
help rebuild the society following all
the destruction
a former apex employee bernie hayes runs
a podcast
called as titan truth podcast in this
podcast
he discusses about his theories on
whatever kind of secret work the company
is behind
as bernie tries to gain entrance into
the facility it comes under attack by
godzilla who lays waste to the place
seemingly unprovoked after burning half
the place down
bernie notices what looks like a core
reactor hidden underground
madison russell sees news of godzilla's
rampage
leading to everyone thinking he is not
as heroic as he once seemed
she goes to tell her dad mark who is now
working closer with the monarch
madison doesn't think godzilla is
naturally destructive
but mark thinks that godzilla has given
into these monstrous tendencies
she denies because she listens to
bernie's podcast regularly and overhears
him saying
how the pensacola facility is
responsible for whatever is going on
with godzilla
at the denham university in philadelphia
walter visits former monarch scientist
dr nathan lind with rensseri zawa
son of ishiro they approached nathan
over his hollow earth theory
as they have detected an energy signal
from a potential ecosystem in hollow
earth
walter wants the energy source from
there to fight against godzilla
but nathan tells them that it is not an
easy task to go to the hollow earth
because of zero gravity
he also states that few years back his
brother was lost in a mission traveling
toward this location
then walter shows him a vehicle that can
get him and a crew down there safely
but there was a problem cause no one
really knows the right path to this
location
so walter tells nathan that we will need
a titan that belongs to this place
nathan goes to find ileane his former
colleague to convince her to use kong to
help locate the hollow earth source
she is reluctant to do so knowing that
godzilla and kong's ancestors once
fought against each other in a great war
and may repeat history
but she gives in kong is brought on
board a convoy ship
and the crew is joined by walter's
daughter maya to oversee that
the operation goes according to plan
while sailing in the pouring rain
gia goes outside to find kong roaring in
distress
eileen runs out and learns from gia that
kong is able to understand and
communicate in sign language and she
knows that
madison gets her friend josh to go with
her to find bernie
they get a tip from a guy at the nearby
convenience store and locate his
apartment
bernie only talks to them when he
realizes who madison's mother was
he discusses his conspiracy theory with
madison and josh
she thinks that apex did something to
provoke godzilla into attacking
bernie tells them about a large stash of
cargo that has made its way to apex
as well as the tech he noticed earlier
the crew feeds kong fish while eileen
asks jaw why she didn't tell her that
kong can communicate
and jia says that kong didn't want them
to know
not long after godzilla makes his way
toward the convoy
crashing into them and causing the ship
to turn over
kong is freed from his bonds and goes
after the giant lizard
kong manages to get a couple of good
hits in and knock godzilla back into the
ocean
but godzilla fires his blue flame toward
the sky
causing him to take the advantage and
pull kong underwater with his tail
nearly drowning him the crew releases
depth charges to disorient godzilla and
free kong
but the ape is wiped out eileen tells
the convoy's captain to kill the power
to make godzilla think he's won so that
he can leave
they do so and it works but they end up
getting airlifted to their destination
bernie joins madison and josh to the
rundown pensacola facility
but when they access the bunker they
find that the core is gone
the three then find an elevator that
takes them underground
they come across a chamber containing
pods filled with skull crawlers
but before they can get out the chamber
is picked up and being transported to
hong kong walter tests its power on an
unlucky skull crawler which the trio
witnesses
they also discover that ren is
controlling mechagodzilla using a
psionic uplink with one of the skulls of
ghidorah
the trio are then caught and apprehended
by apex guards
the crew travels deeper into hollow
earth and comes across the home of
kong's ancestors
he picks up an axe made from a spike off
the back of godzilla's ancestors
and he finds his family's throne room
and sits upon it like
a true king the axe activates the energy
source in the ground
maya then sends out apex spider drones
to take out a sample of the source for
her father to exploit
despite protests from nathan and elene
from up above
bat creatures descend and attack kong
and the crew but he fights them off
on the surface godzilla has entered hong
kong and finds the source leading to
hollow earth
he breathes down it and sends a blast to
charge kong's axe
in the chaos maya and her team try to
shoot kong down
then kong grab their craft and crush it
in his paw
he then jumps through the portal with
nathan elene
and jaw following in their craft kong
takes his axe out and begins round two
with godzilla
they trash the city and demolish
skyscrapers but kong comes back with a
fury by bringing down the axe on
godzilla
his blue flame doesn't affect it so kong
manages to bring godzilla down hard with
one swing
however godzilla gets himself back up
and brings kong down again with his foot
he roars in kong's face but kong remains
defiant and roars right back at him
godzilla spares him and starts walking
away the trio are brought to walter
who is planning to set mechagodzilla
onto the real godzilla to establish
humanity's dominance over the creatures
unfortunately just as ren beings the
uplink to mechagodzilla
godora's consciousness takes control
mechagodzilla swings its claw at walter
which killed him while ren is
electrocuted from the override
the metal beast rises to the surface and
goes after godzilla
beginning to overpower him with its
strength and stronger heat blast
when jaw senses kong's heartbeat slowing
down nathan uses the apex vehicle to
deliver an enough charge powerful to
revive
kong when he wakes up jia tells kong
that godzilla is not the enemy
he understands and charges to fight
mechagodzilla before it can deliver the
fatal blow to godzilla
kong brings his axe down on the giant
robot and godzilla joins the fight
realizing kong is on his side godzilla
charges kong's axe with his fire breath
and the mighty ape starts chopping
mechagodzilla's limbs off before ripping
its head off and showing it off as a
trophy
in the aftermath madison reunites with
mark
and he meets bernie who wants to have
him on the podcast to discuss more apex
and monarch cover-ups
godzilla then rises and looks at kong
who drops his axe to signify their truce
the titans look at each other as worthy
opponents before godzilla goes back into
the ocean
nathan and ileane set up a new research
facility in hollow earth
which kong has made his new home he
continues his friendship with jaw and
goes about the land
where he is now once again the king
[Music]